BEFORE THE FLIGHT
1. Arrive at the airport at least two hours before the scheduled departure of your flight.
2. If you have too much luggage to carry in hand, get a luggage trolley, which is normally free to use, from the airport.
3. Show the copy of your flight ticket and your identity card at the airport entry to the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) guard posted there.
4. He will check the details and let you into the airport - do not forget to collect your ticket and ID card.
5. Either look for or ask anyone around to direct you to the baggage X-Ray screening area corresponding to your airline.
6. At the baggage screening area, get the bags that you intend to "check-in", screened (X-Rayed). After checking, a sticker will be applied on the screened bags in such a way that the bags cannot be opened without tearing the sticker. So, do not open your bags after screening.
7. Proceed to the "check-in" counter corresponding to your airline. You can identify this by the airline logo displayed above the counter. Checking in essentially tells the airline that you have arrived and are ready to board the flight. If in doubt, ask.
8. You will have to wait in queue at the check-in counter and when your turn comes, proceed to the check-in counter and display your ticket and identity card to the person at the counter. You need not handover the bag that you plan to carry with yourself in the flight. But, the bags that you want to "check-in" or want the airline to carry on your behalf in the separate baggage area of the aircraft, should be handed over. Those bags will be weighed and measured to ensure that they are within the baggage rules and then sent away for loading. You only need to worry about them after landing at your destination.
9. You will then be given your boarding pass along with the baggage receipt (which will help you in locating your luggage at the destination) and one baggage tag for each piece of luggage that you are carry with you inside the flight cabin (hand baggage).
10. Collect the boarding pass, baggage tag, bag receipt, copy of your ticket, your identity card and your hand baggage and move away from the counter so that the next person in queue can check-in.
11. Attach the baggage tag to your hand baggage.
12. Look at your boarding pass and locate your boarding gate and boarding time.
13. Proceed for security check where you will have to wait in queue and then you will have to place your hand baggage on a conveyor belt for X-Ray and screening - if you have a laptop in the bag, you will have to remove it and place is separately for screening. You will also have to put you mobile phone, watch, wallet, purse, belt etc. for scanning before going through security.
14. You will be asked to walk through a metal detector as part of security.
15. You will then be frisked by a CISF guard (men frisked by men and women by women).
16. The CISF guard will stamp your boarding pass once you clear security and hand it to you.
17. Your hand baggage would have arrived after screening right next to you. Ensure that the baggage tag on your hand baggage has been stamped after security clearance - occasionally you might be asked to open the bag and show the contents for inspection.
18. Collect your hand baggage and boarding pass and look for your boarding gate - there will be directions marked clearly in the airport indicating the position of the gates. If in doubt, ask anyone around.
19. Arrive at the boarding gate mentioned on your boarding pass and wait for boarding to start till the boarding time indicated on the boarding pass.
20. When boarding starts, queue up for boarding if requested - sometimes boarding is done based on priority and also based on seat zones. If so, wait for your seat zone (normally the first letter of the seat number C, D, E, F etc.) to be called for boarding.
21. Present your boarding pass to the airline attendant who will verify the details, keep one section of the boarding pass and return the other part to you.
From here, there are two possibilities
You might be asked to board a bus that will take you to the aircraft or you might board the aircraft via an aerobridge - which is easier. In either case, you will be guided to the aircraft by the crew.
22. Once in the aircraft, the air hostess will normally ask for your seat number and guide you to your seat. If not, feel free to ask.
23. Once at your seat, put your hand baggage in the overhead bin and sit comfortably in your seat.