IN FLIGHT
1. When all passengers have boarded, the crew will prepare the flight for takeoff.
2. The crew will demonstrate safety instructions and emergency procedures.
3. There will be announcements from the captain about the details of the flight - destination, expected duration of flight, weather etc.
4. You will be asked to open the window blinds, fold the food tray, return your backrest to the upright position, switch off your electronic devices (or put them in airplane mode) and fasten your seat belt. Ask the air hostess for help, if required.
5. When the flight gets the nod for takeoff, it will taxi to the designated runway and position itself for takeoff - you will feel more or less like sitting in a car.
6. You will then hear the engines being powered to full throttle and then the airplane will start its takeoff run - this will be more like sitting in a sports car, extreme acceleration and high speed run.
7. The aircraft will then lift off and you will at times feel weightless as it leaves the ground, noise levels will fall dramatically.
8. As the aircraft ascends, some people might feel a slight pain in the ears due to pressure variation. This can usually be avoided by chewing candy or forcefully yawning/opening the mouth wide repeatedly.
9. Once at cruising altitude, the seat belt sign will be turned off, but it is advisable to keep the seat belt on while seated, just in case turbulence is encountered.
10. You can use the toilet when the seat belt sign is switched off.
11. Depending on the airline you might be served food and drinks as part of the service or you may have to buy it, if you want it. Be aware that food in flights is at least twice as expensive compared to the normal price.
12. If you would like to summon an air hostess, you can use a button above your seat, to do so.
13. Sit back, relax and enjoy your flight.
14. Once the flight is close to the destination, the captain will announce that the flight is ready to land and will request the cabin crew to prepare for landing.
The cabin crew will collect any rubbish that you might have. 
Toilets will be locked.
You will again be asked to open the window blinds, fold the food tray, return your backrest to the upright position, switch off your electronic devices (or put them in airplane mode) and fasten your seat belt - this time for landing. Ask the air hostess for help, if required.
You will feel the aircraft descending as it approaches the airport runway and will be able to see landmarks through the aircraft window.
You might feel a thud as the aircraft touches down and then a rapid deceleration.
The aircraft will then taxi to the designated gate - please remain seated during this time and keep your seat belt on.
15. Once the aircraft has come to a complete halt, unfasten your seat belt, open the overhead bin carefully - some baggage could have shifted during the flight and you do not want it to fall off as you open the bin - pick your baggage and prepare to disembark.
16. Thank the air hostess and disembark - you might either disembark via an aerobridge or might need to take a bus to your gate, just like you did when you boarded the plane.